README.md, before:

# Medicaid RAG System

A fully local, open-source Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system for Pennsylvania Medicaid eligibility information, with a focus on helping seniors and their families. Built with TypeScript, LM Studio, Qdrant, and PostgreSQL.

## Features

### Core RAG Capabilities
- **PDF Ingestion**: Convert Medicaid PDFs to Markdown using OCR
- **Hybrid Search**: Combine vector similarity (Qdrant) with BM25 (PostgreSQL)
- **RRF Fusion**: Reciprocal Rank Fusion for optimal result merging
- **LLM Reranking**: Listwise reranking using local LLM
- **Grounded Answers**: Responses with document/page/chunk citations
- **Caching**: Embedding and query result caching
- **Metrics**: Query logging and performance tracking

### Senior-Focused Enhancements
- **Guardrails for Sensitive Topics**: Automatic detection and disclaimers for:
  - Estate planning questions
  - Asset transfer inquiries (5-year look-back period)
  - Spend-down strategies
  - Complex spousal situations
  - Appeals and denials
- **Professional Referrals**: Automatic inclusion of help resources:
  - PHLP (Pennsylvania Health Law Project): 1-800-274-3258
  - Elder Law Attorney referrals: 1-800-932-0311
  - Pennsylvania Legal Aid Network: 1-800-322-7572
- **Chester County Resources**: Local CAO and APPRISE contact information
- **Data Freshness Tracking**: Warnings for outdated FPL, MSP limits, and other data

### Ingested Documents (12 PDFs, 480 chunks)
- PHLP 2025 MSP Guide (Medicare Savings Programs)
- PHLP 2025 Income Limits
- PA DHS Long-Term Care Information
- PA DHS Estate Recovery FAQ
- PA DHS LIFE Program Materials
- PA DHS Healthy Horizons
- And more Pennsylvania Medicaid resources

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           OFFLINE / INGESTION                               │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                             │
│  ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐              │
│  │  PDFs   │───▶│ PDF→MD   │───▶│ Chunker  │───▶│  Embed    │              │
│  │         │    │ (olmocr) │    │          │    │           │              │
│  └─────────┘    └──────────┘    └────┬─────┘    └─────┬─────┘              │
│                                      │                │                     │
│                                      ▼                ▼                     │
│                               ┌──────────┐     ┌──────────┐                │
│                               │ Postgres │     │  Qdrant  │                │
│                               │  (BM25)  │     │ (Vector) │                │
│                               └──────────┘     └──────────┘                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            ONLINE / QUERY                                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐              │
│  │  User   │───▶│Guardrails│───▶│  Embed   │───▶│  Hybrid   │              │
│  │  Query  │    │  Check   │    │  Query   │    │  Search   │              │
│  └─────────┘    └────┬─────┘    └──────────┘    └─────┬─────┘              │
│                      │                                │                     │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┤                     │
│                      │    │   RRF    │◀───│  Vector  │                     │
│                      │    │  Fusion  │    │  + BM25  │                     │
│                      │    └────┬─────┘    └──────────┘                     │
│                      │         │                                            │
│                      │         ▼                                            │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐                                     │
│                      │    │  Rerank  │                                     │
│                      │    │  (LLM)   │                                     │
│                      │    └────┬─────┘                                     │
│                      │         │                                            │
│                      │         ▼                                            │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐                    │
│                      └───▶│  Answer  │───▶│  Answer + │                    │
│                           │  (LLM)   │    │ Disclaimer│                    │
│                           └──────────┘    └───────────┘                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm
- Docker & Docker Compose
- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) with the following models loaded:
  - `text-embedding-nomic-embed-text-v1.5` (Embeddings - 768 dimensions)
  - `qwen2.5-vl-7b-instruct` (LLM for answers and reranking)
  - `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` (OCR for PDF processing - optional, only needed for ingestion)

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd rag-medicaid-local
pnpm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings
```

### 3. Start Infrastructure

```bash
# Start Qdrant and PostgreSQL
pnpm docker:up

# Run database migrations
pnpm db:migrate
```

### 4. Start LM Studio

1. Open LM Studio
2. Search for and download these models:
   - `nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5-GGUF` (embeddings)
   - `Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct-GGUF` (LLM)
   - `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` (OCR - only if ingesting new PDFs)
3. Load the embedding model and LLM model
4. Start the local server (default: http://localhost:1234)
5. Verify models are loaded:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:1234/v1/models | jq '.data[].id'
   ```

### 5. Ingest Documents

```bash
# Ingest a single PDF
pnpm ingest file /path/to/document.pdf

# Ingest a directory of PDFs
pnpm ingest directory /path/to/pdfs --recursive

# Check ingestion stats
pnpm ingest stats
```

### 6. Query the System

```bash
# General questions (no disclaimer)
pnpm query ask "What is the LIFE program and how does it help seniors?"
pnpm query ask "What are the income limits for Medicare Savings Programs?"

# Sensitive topics (automatic disclaimers added)
pnpm query ask "Can I transfer my house to my children to qualify for Medicaid?"
pnpm query ask "My Medicaid application was denied, how do I appeal?"

# View metrics
pnpm query metrics
```

#### Example Output with Guardrails

For sensitive topics like asset transfers, the system automatically adds disclaimers:

```
Answer:
If you transfer ownership to a child under 21 years old, it does not affect
your Medicaid eligibility. However, if you give away your house within the
past 60 months before applying for Medicaid, it will be reviewed and could
potentially disqualify you from receiving Medicaid benefits.

Citations: [1] PA-DHS-Estate-Recovery-FAQ.pdf

---
**Important Notice:** Asset transfers within 5 years of applying for Medicaid
("look-back period") can result in penalties that delay your coverage.
Please consult an elder law attorney.

**For Professional Help:** Elder Law Attorney - PA Referral: 1-800-932-0311
```

### 7. Start the API Server

```bash
# Development mode
pnpm dev

# Production mode
pnpm build && pnpm start
```

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
```
GET /health
```

### Query
```
POST /query
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "What are the Medicaid eligibility requirements?",
  "useCache": true
}
```

Response:
```json
{
  "answer": "Based on the documents...",
  "citations": [
    {
      "chunkId": "uuid",
      "documentId": "uuid",
      "filename": "medicaid-guide.pdf",
      "pageNumber": 5,
      "chunkIndex": 12,
      "excerpt": "Income must be below..."
    }
  ],
  "confidence": 85.5,
  "queryId": "uuid",
  "latencyMs": 1250,
  "retrievalStats": {
    "vectorResults": 20,
    "bm25Results": 20,
    "fusedResults": 15,
    "rerankedResults": 10,
    "finalResults": 5
  }
}
```

### Ingest File
```
POST /ingest/file
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "filepath": "/absolute/path/to/document.pdf"
}
```

### Ingest Directory
```
POST /ingest/directory
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "dirPath": "/absolute/path/to/pdfs",
  "recursive": true,
  "saveMarkdown": false
}
```

### Get Metrics
```
GET /metrics
```

## Configuration

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` | `http://localhost:1234/v1` | LM Studio API URL |
| `LM_STUDIO_OCR_MODEL` | `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` | OCR model name |
| `LM_STUDIO_LLM_MODEL` | `qwen2.5-vl-7b-instruct` | LLM model name |
| `LM_STUDIO_EMBEDDING_MODEL` | `text-embedding-nomic-embed-text-v1.5` | Embedding model |
| `QDRANT_URL` | `http://localhost:6333` | Qdrant server URL |
| `QDRANT_COLLECTION` | `medicaid_chunks` | Qdrant collection name |
| `EMBEDDING_DIMENSION` | `768` | Embedding vector dimension (must match model) |
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | `localhost` | PostgreSQL host |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | `5432` | PostgreSQL port |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | `medicaid_rag` | Database name |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | `postgres` | Database user |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | `postgres` | Database password |
| `CHUNK_SIZE` | `512` | Maximum chunk size in characters |
| `CHUNK_OVERLAP` | `64` | Overlap between chunks |
| `VECTOR_TOP_K` | `20` | Vector search results to retrieve |
| `BM25_TOP_K` | `20` | BM25 search results to retrieve |
| `RERANK_TOP_N` | `10` | Results to consider for reranking |
| `FINAL_TOP_C` | `5` | Final results for answer generation |
| `CACHE_ENABLED` | `true` | Enable caching |
| `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS` | `3600` | Cache TTL in seconds |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | Logging level |

## Development

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Run tests in watch mode
pnpm test:watch

# Run with coverage
pnpm test:coverage
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── api/                 # Express API server
│   └── server.ts
├── cli/                 # CLI commands
│   ├── ingest.ts
│   └── query.ts
├── clients/             # External service clients
│   ├── lm-studio.ts     # LM Studio OpenAI-compatible client
│   ├── postgres.ts      # PostgreSQL client
│   └── qdrant.ts        # Qdrant vector store client
├── config/              # Configuration loading
│   └── index.ts
├── db/                  # Database migrations
│   └── migrate.ts
├── freshness/           # Data freshness tracking
│   └── checker.ts       # FPL, MSP limits staleness detection
├── guardrails/          # Sensitive topic detection
│   ├── index.ts         # GuardrailsEngine
│   ├── detector.ts      # Keyword-based topic detection
│   └── disclaimers.ts   # Disclaimer templates and referrals
├── ingestion/           # Document ingestion pipeline
│   ├── chunker.ts       # Markdown chunking
│   ├── pdf-processor.ts # PDF to Markdown conversion
│   └── pipeline.ts      # Complete ingestion pipeline
├── prompts/             # LLM prompt templates
│   └── senior-assistant.ts  # Senior-focused prompts
├── retrieval/           # Query retrieval pipeline
│   ├── fusion.ts        # RRF fusion algorithm
│   ├── reranker.ts      # LLM-based reranking
│   └── pipeline.ts      # Complete retrieval pipeline with guardrails
├── types/               # TypeScript types
│   └── index.ts
├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   ├── hash.ts
│   ├── logger.ts
│   └── text-sanitizer.ts  # PostgreSQL encoding fixes
└── index.ts             # Main entry point

tests/
├── e2e/                 # End-to-end tests
│   └── senior-queries.e2e.test.ts
├── fixtures/            # Test data
│   ├── queries/         # Senior intent test queries
│   └── expected/        # Golden answers for validation
└── helpers/             # Test utilities
    ├── mock-lm-studio.ts
    └── test-fixtures.ts

scripts/
└── migrations/          # Database migrations
    └── 002_senior_focus.sql  # Senior-focused schema additions
```

## Troubleshooting

### LM Studio Connection Issues

1. Ensure LM Studio is running and the local server is started
2. Verify models are loaded:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:1234/v1/models | jq '.data[].id'
   ```
3. Check `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` matches your LM Studio server
4. Ensure model names in `.env` match exactly what LM Studio reports

### Embedding Dimension Mismatch

If you see errors about vector dimensions:
1. Check your embedding model's dimension (nomic-embed-text-v1.5 uses 768)
2. Update `EMBEDDING_DIMENSION` in `.env` to match
3. If collection exists with wrong dimension, reset and re-ingest:
   ```bash
   pnpm reset:ingest  # Warning: deletes all data and re-ingests
   ```

### Database Connection Issues

```bash
# Check if containers are running
docker ps

# View logs
docker-compose logs postgres
docker-compose logs qdrant

# Restart containers
pnpm docker:down && pnpm docker:up
```

### Query Returns "Cannot find answer"

1. Verify documents are ingested:
   ```bash
   pnpm ingest stats
   ```
2. Check LM Studio has the LLM model loaded (not just embeddings)
3. Try a simpler query to test: "What is Medicaid?"

### Ingestion Failures

- Ensure PDFs are valid and not password-protected
- Check available disk space
- Verify LM Studio has enough memory for the models
- For OCR issues, ensure `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` is loaded

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add poppler requirement for OCR and update troubleshooting
- Add poppler to prerequisites (brew install poppler / apt install poppler-utils)
- Clarify OCR is only needed for scanned/image-based PDFs
- Expand troubleshooting section with OCR-specific guidance
- Note OCR timing (~25 seconds per page on 7B model)

README.md, after:

# Medicaid RAG System

A fully local, open-source Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) system for Pennsylvania Medicaid eligibility information, with a focus on helping seniors and their families. Built with TypeScript, LM Studio, Qdrant, and PostgreSQL.

## Features

### Core RAG Capabilities
- **PDF Ingestion**: Convert Medicaid PDFs to Markdown using OCR
- **Hybrid Search**: Combine vector similarity (Qdrant) with BM25 (PostgreSQL)
- **RRF Fusion**: Reciprocal Rank Fusion for optimal result merging
- **LLM Reranking**: Listwise reranking using local LLM
- **Grounded Answers**: Responses with document/page/chunk citations
- **Caching**: Embedding and query result caching
- **Metrics**: Query logging and performance tracking

### Senior-Focused Enhancements
- **Guardrails for Sensitive Topics**: Automatic detection and disclaimers for:
  - Estate planning questions
  - Asset transfer inquiries (5-year look-back period)
  - Spend-down strategies
  - Complex spousal situations
  - Appeals and denials
- **Professional Referrals**: Automatic inclusion of help resources:
  - PHLP (Pennsylvania Health Law Project): 1-800-274-3258
  - Elder Law Attorney referrals: 1-800-932-0311
  - Pennsylvania Legal Aid Network: 1-800-322-7572
- **Chester County Resources**: Local CAO and APPRISE contact information
- **Data Freshness Tracking**: Warnings for outdated FPL, MSP limits, and other data

### Ingested Documents (12 PDFs, 480 chunks)
- PHLP 2025 MSP Guide (Medicare Savings Programs)
- PHLP 2025 Income Limits
- PA DHS Long-Term Care Information
- PA DHS Estate Recovery FAQ
- PA DHS LIFE Program Materials
- PA DHS Healthy Horizons
- And more Pennsylvania Medicaid resources

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           OFFLINE / INGESTION                               │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                                             │
│  ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐              │
│  │  PDFs   │───▶│ PDF→MD   │───▶│ Chunker  │───▶│  Embed    │              │
│  │         │    │ (olmocr) │    │          │    │           │              │
│  └─────────┘    └──────────┘    └────┬─────┘    └─────┬─────┘              │
│                                      │                │                     │
│                                      ▼                ▼                     │
│                               ┌──────────┐     ┌──────────┐                │
│                               │ Postgres │     │  Qdrant  │                │
│                               │  (BM25)  │     │ (Vector) │                │
│                               └──────────┘     └──────────┘                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                            ONLINE / QUERY                                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌─────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐              │
│  │  User   │───▶│Guardrails│───▶│  Embed   │───▶│  Hybrid   │              │
│  │  Query  │    │  Check   │    │  Query   │    │  Search   │              │
│  └─────────┘    └────┬─────┘    └──────────┘    └─────┬─────┘              │
│                      │                                │                     │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┤                     │
│                      │    │   RRF    │◀───│  Vector  │                     │
│                      │    │  Fusion  │    │  + BM25  │                     │
│                      │    └────┬─────┘    └──────────┘                     │
│                      │         │                                            │
│                      │         ▼                                            │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐                                     │
│                      │    │  Rerank  │                                     │
│                      │    │  (LLM)   │                                     │
│                      │    └────┬─────┘                                     │
│                      │         │                                            │
│                      │         ▼                                            │
│                      │    ┌──────────┐    ┌───────────┐                    │
│                      └───▶│  Answer  │───▶│  Answer + │                    │
│                           │  (LLM)   │    │ Disclaimer│                    │
│                           └──────────┘    └───────────┘                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- pnpm
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Poppler (for PDF processing): `brew install poppler` (macOS) or `apt install poppler-utils` (Linux)
- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/) with the following models loaded:
  - `text-embedding-nomic-embed-text-v1.5` (Embeddings - 768 dimensions)
  - `qwen2.5-vl-7b-instruct` (LLM for answers and reranking)
  - `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` (OCR for scanned PDFs - optional, only needed for image-based PDFs)

## Quick Start

### 1. Clone and Install

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd rag-medicaid-local
pnpm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your settings
```

### 3. Start Infrastructure

```bash
# Start Qdrant and PostgreSQL
pnpm docker:up

# Run database migrations
pnpm db:migrate
```

### 4. Start LM Studio

1. Open LM Studio
2. Search for and download these models:
   - `nomic-ai/nomic-embed-text-v1.5-GGUF` (embeddings)
   - `Qwen/Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Instruct-GGUF` (LLM)
   - `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` (OCR - only if ingesting new PDFs)
3. Load the embedding model and LLM model
4. Start the local server (default: http://localhost:1234)
5. Verify models are loaded:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:1234/v1/models | jq '.data[].id'
   ```

### 5. Ingest Documents

```bash
# Ingest a single PDF
pnpm ingest file /path/to/document.pdf

# Ingest a directory of PDFs
pnpm ingest directory /path/to/pdfs --recursive

# Check ingestion stats
pnpm ingest stats
```

### 6. Query the System

```bash
# General questions (no disclaimer)
pnpm query ask "What is the LIFE program and how does it help seniors?"
pnpm query ask "What are the income limits for Medicare Savings Programs?"

# Sensitive topics (automatic disclaimers added)
pnpm query ask "Can I transfer my house to my children to qualify for Medicaid?"
pnpm query ask "My Medicaid application was denied, how do I appeal?"

# View metrics
pnpm query metrics
```

#### Example Output with Guardrails

For sensitive topics like asset transfers, the system automatically adds disclaimers:

```
Answer:
If you transfer ownership to a child under 21 years old, it does not affect
your Medicaid eligibility. However, if you give away your house within the
past 60 months before applying for Medicaid, it will be reviewed and could
potentially disqualify you from receiving Medicaid benefits.

Citations: [1] PA-DHS-Estate-Recovery-FAQ.pdf

---
**Important Notice:** Asset transfers within 5 years of applying for Medicaid
("look-back period") can result in penalties that delay your coverage.
Please consult an elder law attorney.

**For Professional Help:** Elder Law Attorney - PA Referral: 1-800-932-0311
```

### 7. Start the API Server

```bash
# Development mode
pnpm dev

# Production mode
pnpm build && pnpm start
```

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
```
GET /health
```

### Query
```
POST /query
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "query": "What are the Medicaid eligibility requirements?",
  "useCache": true
}
```

Response:
```json
{
  "answer": "Based on the documents...",
  "citations": [
    {
      "chunkId": "uuid",
      "documentId": "uuid",
      "filename": "medicaid-guide.pdf",
      "pageNumber": 5,
      "chunkIndex": 12,
      "excerpt": "Income must be below..."
    }
  ],
  "confidence": 85.5,
  "queryId": "uuid",
  "latencyMs": 1250,
  "retrievalStats": {
    "vectorResults": 20,
    "bm25Results": 20,
    "fusedResults": 15,
    "rerankedResults": 10,
    "finalResults": 5
  }
}
```

### Ingest File
```
POST /ingest/file
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "filepath": "/absolute/path/to/document.pdf"
}
```

### Ingest Directory
```
POST /ingest/directory
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "dirPath": "/absolute/path/to/pdfs",
  "recursive": true,
  "saveMarkdown": false
}
```

### Get Metrics
```
GET /metrics
```

## Configuration

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` | `http://localhost:1234/v1` | LM Studio API URL |
| `LM_STUDIO_OCR_MODEL` | `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` | OCR model name |
| `LM_STUDIO_LLM_MODEL` | `qwen2.5-vl-7b-instruct` | LLM model name |
| `LM_STUDIO_EMBEDDING_MODEL` | `text-embedding-nomic-embed-text-v1.5` | Embedding model |
| `QDRANT_URL` | `http://localhost:6333` | Qdrant server URL |
| `QDRANT_COLLECTION` | `medicaid_chunks` | Qdrant collection name |
| `EMBEDDING_DIMENSION` | `768` | Embedding vector dimension (must match model) |
| `POSTGRES_HOST` | `localhost` | PostgreSQL host |
| `POSTGRES_PORT` | `5432` | PostgreSQL port |
| `POSTGRES_DB` | `medicaid_rag` | Database name |
| `POSTGRES_USER` | `postgres` | Database user |
| `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` | `postgres` | Database password |
| `CHUNK_SIZE` | `512` | Maximum chunk size in characters |
| `CHUNK_OVERLAP` | `64` | Overlap between chunks |
| `VECTOR_TOP_K` | `20` | Vector search results to retrieve |
| `BM25_TOP_K` | `20` | BM25 search results to retrieve |
| `RERANK_TOP_N` | `10` | Results to consider for reranking |
| `FINAL_TOP_C` | `5` | Final results for answer generation |
| `CACHE_ENABLED` | `true` | Enable caching |
| `CACHE_TTL_SECONDS` | `3600` | Cache TTL in seconds |
| `LOG_LEVEL` | `info` | Logging level |

## Development

### Run Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# Run tests in watch mode
pnpm test:watch

# Run with coverage
pnpm test:coverage
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── api/                 # Express API server
│   └── server.ts
├── cli/                 # CLI commands
│   ├── ingest.ts
│   └── query.ts
├── clients/             # External service clients
│   ├── lm-studio.ts     # LM Studio OpenAI-compatible client
│   ├── postgres.ts      # PostgreSQL client
│   └── qdrant.ts        # Qdrant vector store client
├── config/              # Configuration loading
│   └── index.ts
├── db/                  # Database migrations
│   └── migrate.ts
├── freshness/           # Data freshness tracking
│   └── checker.ts       # FPL, MSP limits staleness detection
├── guardrails/          # Sensitive topic detection
│   ├── index.ts         # GuardrailsEngine
│   ├── detector.ts      # Keyword-based topic detection
│   └── disclaimers.ts   # Disclaimer templates and referrals
├── ingestion/           # Document ingestion pipeline
│   ├── chunker.ts       # Markdown chunking
│   ├── pdf-processor.ts # PDF to Markdown conversion
│   └── pipeline.ts      # Complete ingestion pipeline
├── prompts/             # LLM prompt templates
│   └── senior-assistant.ts  # Senior-focused prompts
├── retrieval/           # Query retrieval pipeline
│   ├── fusion.ts        # RRF fusion algorithm
│   ├── reranker.ts      # LLM-based reranking
│   └── pipeline.ts      # Complete retrieval pipeline with guardrails
├── types/               # TypeScript types
│   └── index.ts
├── utils/               # Utility functions
│   ├── hash.ts
│   ├── logger.ts
│   └── text-sanitizer.ts  # PostgreSQL encoding fixes
└── index.ts             # Main entry point

tests/
├── e2e/                 # End-to-end tests
│   └── senior-queries.e2e.test.ts
├── fixtures/            # Test data
│   ├── queries/         # Senior intent test queries
│   └── expected/        # Golden answers for validation
└── helpers/             # Test utilities
    ├── mock-lm-studio.ts
    └── test-fixtures.ts

scripts/
└── migrations/          # Database migrations
    └── 002_senior_focus.sql  # Senior-focused schema additions
```

## Troubleshooting

### LM Studio Connection Issues

1. Ensure LM Studio is running and the local server is started
2. Verify models are loaded:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:1234/v1/models | jq '.data[].id'
   ```
3. Check `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` matches your LM Studio server
4. Ensure model names in `.env` match exactly what LM Studio reports

### Embedding Dimension Mismatch

If you see errors about vector dimensions:
1. Check your embedding model's dimension (nomic-embed-text-v1.5 uses 768)
2. Update `EMBEDDING_DIMENSION` in `.env` to match
3. If collection exists with wrong dimension, reset and re-ingest:
   ```bash
   pnpm reset:ingest  # Warning: deletes all data and re-ingests
   ```

### Database Connection Issues

```bash
# Check if containers are running
docker ps

# View logs
docker-compose logs postgres
docker-compose logs qdrant

# Restart containers
pnpm docker:down && pnpm docker:up
```

### Query Returns "Cannot find answer"

1. Verify documents are ingested:
   ```bash
   pnpm ingest stats
   ```
2. Check LM Studio has the LLM model loaded (not just embeddings)
3. Try a simpler query to test: "What is Medicaid?"

### Ingestion Failures

- Ensure PDFs are valid and not password-protected
- Check available disk space
- Verify LM Studio has enough memory for the models
- For OCR issues with scanned PDFs:
  - Ensure poppler is installed: `brew install poppler` (macOS) or `apt install poppler-utils` (Linux)
  - Ensure `allenai/olmocr-2-7b` is loaded in LM Studio
  - OCR takes ~25 seconds per page on a 7B model

## License

MIT
